---
title: "üñåÔ∏è I've been inspired by 'A Goofy Movie'"
slug: inspired-by-goofy-movie
date: 2021-07-26
tags: Art
description: Yes, I know. It sounds weird, but hear me out.
---

![](./goofy-max.jpg)

Fair word of warning here: I fan boy the absolute HECK out of this
article.

Let me set the scene... It was the 14th of July and I was bored, maybe
even a little lonely. It was a Wednesday and I could remember wishing
for the weekend. My two remaining brain cells had left the building
and I knew it was time to find something to give my brain a break.

I mean sure, there were half a dozen things I could have done instead.
But for some reason, rather unsurprisingly, I found myself browsing
YouTube once again.

_scroll_ _scroll_ _scroll_ sigh... nothing interesting to watch.

I was about to give up when I scrolled one more time and saw Sideways
video on 'Why A Goofy Movie is Better Than You Remember'.

<iframe style="margin:0 auto;" width="250px" height="200px" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/N6j-562xQSs" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Mildly intrigued, I clicked on only to find out I was basically
watching some dude fan boy over a 25 year old movie from the 90s. I
remember thinking - he better hook me real quick or I'm outta here. I
didn't grow up in the 90s, can't relate, sorry.

I watched for another two minutes and found myself instantly hooked. I
giggled inside for even doubting that a Disney movie let alone a Goofy
movie wouldn't be entertaining. To say I was excited was an
understatement.

I hadn't grown up with many Disney films and never saw Goof Troop (the
predecessor to this movie) but I instantly fell in love with Goofy and
the general idea of the movie from the two minutes of watching
Sideways' video.

I gathered up my remaining brain cells, jumped into bed and watched 'A
Goofy Movie'.

---

![](./max-roxanne.jpeg)

This film, might be - no - it is my favorite film of all time. I've
never been a fan boy before, but I guess I can say I know what that's
like now.

The moment I finished the film, I was looking up Wikipedia articles on
characters, learning the songs, and trying to find out why I hadn't
watched it until I was 21.

This movie establishes itself so gawrsh darn well in the first five
minutes, it felt like I already knew all of the characters flaws,
desires, goals and hopes.

But it doesn't just stop there, it continues to develop on the themes
it introduced and offer thought provoking and challenging questions on
how to raise your kids, a relationship between a father and son,
trusting each other and more.

From the opening number, to meeting Roxanne, to seeing Goofy and the
desire that Max has to not be like his father. It sets the stage so
perfectly for what is an amazing father-son adventure full of life
lessons for those young and old.

---

![](./goofy-max-bigfoot.jpg)

But where this movie really got me was the feels. I'm fortunate to
have a great relationship with my father, but I still felt like I
needed to catch up and give him a massive hug after watching this
movie.

The entire movie hinges on the desires of Max and Goofy. Max wanting
to ditch and get away from his father to find his independence and
Goofy just trying to be involved in his sons life, maybe a little too
much for Max's own good.

It's a serious topic that doesn't get nearly enough screen time in
media. The overbearing parent and rebellious child trope rarely ever
find a middle ground.

Typically, the overbearing parent is often used as a story trope to
get the main character to do something they normally wouldn't do, then
completely forgotten at the end of the movie once the villain or
problem has been defeated. You can see a similar thing in the Pixar
movie Luca with his overprotective mother. She basically flips her
entire attitude at the end of the movie with not much of a second
thought.

Unlike Luca though, A Goofy Movie actually addresses these issues and
our main characters come to a fundamental understanding where Goofy
learns to back off a bit, and Max learns to let his father into his
life more.

The dynamic between these characters in the more serious scenes is
serviced so well that it adds an incredibly difficult to replicate
layer of depth to the topics outlined. Jason Marsden and Bill Farmer
execute these scenes perfectly and stay true to their characters
through and through.

---

![](./max-glasses.jpg)

Okay, okay - enough blabbering... GO AND WATCH THE MOVIE ALREADY! It's
on Disney+ - there is no excuse. I will pay for you to watch it...

But why am I inspired you might ask?

Simply put - I want to tell stories like this film. I've never really
thought about creating media, writing stories, drawing or animation as
a career, but after watching this movie and seeing how it touched me,
I want to replicate this over and over again, not just for myself, but
for other people too.

I want to be apart of a team like the one that worked on A Goofy
Movie. I want to animate, be creative and come up with ideas and
stories that touch future generations like this movie had touched me -
nearly 25+ years after it was made.

Primarily, I've been inspired to learn how to animate and make
loveable and attractive characters that captivate audiences and share
the same depth and love that I have for Goofy and Max.

It sounds silly for a 21 year old in tech to completely switch
interests, but come to think of it, I've never been as excited about
tech as I have been about this movie and the idea of a creative future
in media for myself.

Watch this space I say - I'll be posting my learning progress as I go
and updating this blog.

Will I completely drop tech? Hell no! I need money to survive, don't
be silly. Plus, I still have things I want and need to learn in tech
too - choppin' that up with more creative learning will certainly be a
good thing for retaining information.

Anyway. That's my rant about why A Goofy Movie is my all time favorite
movie.

Peace.

PS - check out the music for this movie too. Absolute gold mine that
I've had on repeat for weeks...

<iframe src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/album/0hrzkSV1itMmED3M4N1QJI?theme=0" width="100%" height="380" frameBorder="0" allowtransparency="true" allow="encrypted-media"></iframe>
